SB 0272 SB 272 &#8211; AS AMENDED BY THE SENATE 01/3014 0118s 2014 SESSION 14-2711 03/04 SENATE BILL 272 AN ACT relative to notice of voter registration. SPONSORS: Sen. Boutin, Dist 16; Rep. Fields, Belk 4 COMMITTEE: Public and Municipal Affairs ANALYSIS This bill authorizes the secretary of state to provide notice of a voter registration to supervisors of the checklist in another state. This bill was requested by the department of state. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears <strike class="amendmentDeletedText">in brackets and struckthrough.</strike> Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 01/3014 0118s 14-2711 03/04 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Fourteen AN ACT relative to notice of voter registration. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 Adding Name to Checklist; Notice. Amend RSA 654:13, I to read as follows: I. If the supervisors decide to add the name of the applicant to the checklist, then they shall retain the original of the registration form for their own file, which shall be retained in accordance with RSA 33-A:3-a, forward one copy to the supervisors of the checklist of the city or town of the applicant&#8217;s last voting address if said address is in the state of Vermont, Maine, Massachusetts, Connecticut, or Rhode Island, <strike class="amendmentDeletedText">and send another copy to the clerk of their town or city</strike> or any state with which the secretary of state has established a mutual agreement for this purpose, and notify the clerk through the statewide centralized voter registration database . Alternatively, if the supervisors decide to add the name of the applicant to the checklist, then they shall retain the original of the registration form for their own file, which shall be retained in accordance with RSA 33-A:3-a, the secretary of state may, on behalf and at the request of the supervisors of the checklist, forward data included in the registration form to the state of the applicant&#8217;s last voting address if said address is in the state of Vermont, Maine, Massachusetts, Connecticut, or Rhode Island, or any state with which the secretary of state has established a mutual agreement for this purpose, and notify the clerks and supervisors of the checklist through the statewide centralized voter registration database. If the state takes this action to notify another state of the voter&#8217;s registration, the supervisors of the checklist shall not be required to notify their counterparts in the other state. Upon entry of the voter record in the statewide centralized voter registration database, the supervisors of the checklist in another New Hampshire city or town will receive notice through the statewide centralized voter registration database that the voter has moved. 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.