HB 0391 HB 391 - AS INTRODUCED 2001 SESSION 01-0573 05/01 HOUSE BILL 391 AN ACT establishing a commission to review the state's election laws and balloting procedures. SPONSORS: Rep. Sova, Graf 11; Rep. Leber, Merr 1; Rep. Scovner, Graf 13; Rep. Alger, Graf 9 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill establishes a commission to review the state's election laws and balloting procedures. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears [ in brackets and struckthrough. ] Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 01-0573 05/01 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand One AN ACT establishing a commission to review the state's election laws and balloting procedures. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 Commission Established. There is established a commission to review the state's election laws and balloting procedures. 2 Membership and Compensation. I. The members of the commission shall be as follows: (a) Two members of the house of representatives, appointed by the speaker of the house. (b) Two members of the senate, appointed by the president of the senate. (c) The secretary of state, or designee. (d) The attorney general, or designee. (e) A local election official, appointed by the governor. II. Legislative members of the commission shall receive mileage at the legislative rate when attending to the duties of the commission. 3 Duties. The commission shall review and report on the election laws, balloting, and ballot counting procedures in New Hampshire to ascertain whether they will withstand legal challenges such as those that occurred in Florida in the 2000 Presidential election. 4 Chairperson; Quorum. The membership appointments shall be made within 30 days of the effective date of this act. The members of the commission shall elect a chairperson from among the members. The first meeting of the commission shall be called by the first-named house member and shall be held within 60 days of the effective date of this act. Five members of the commission shall constitute a quorum. 5 Report. The commission shall report its findings and any proposed legislation to the speaker of the house of representatives, the senate president, the house clerk, the senate clerk, the governor, and the state library on or before November 1, 2001. 6 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.