HB 1126 HB 1126 &#8211; AS INTRODUCED 2012 SESSION 12-2004 03/09 HOUSE BILL 1126 AN ACT relative to nomination of candidates for United States senator. SPONSORS: Rep. Kingsbury, Belk 4; Rep. DeLemus, Straf 1; Rep. L. Vita, Straf 3; Rep. Davenport, Rock 12; Rep. D. McGuire, Merr 8 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill requires members of the general court to nominate candidates for United States senator. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears <strike class="amendmentDeletedText">in brackets and struckthrough.</strike> Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 12-2004 03/09 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twelve AN ACT relative to nomination of candidates for United States senator. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 New Section; Nominations for United States Senator. Amend RSA 655 by inserting after section 13 the following new section: 655:13-a Nominations for United States Senator. I. In each year in which a United States senator is to be elected, the members of each party in the New Hampshire house of representatives shall select a candidate for the office of United States senator. The party leader in such chamber shall forward the name of the candidate to the secretary of state for placement on the party&#8217;s primary ballot. II. In each year in which a United States senator is to be elected, the members of each party in the New Hampshire senate shall select a candidate for the office of United States senator. The party leader in such chamber shall forward the name of the candidate to the secretary of state for placement on the party&#8217;s primary ballot. III. No person may file for the office of United States senator for the state primary election unless he or she has been selected pursuant to paragraph I or II of this section. This section shall not prohibit a person from being nominated for the office of United States senator by write-in votes. 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.