HB 0363 HB 363 &#8211; AS AMENDED BY THE HOUSE 23Mar2005&#8230; 0651h 2005 SESSION 05-0768 03/09 HOUSE BILL 363 AN ACT relative to parking at polling places. SPONSORS: Rep. Dorsett, Graf 8; Rep. Dickinson, Carr 1; Rep. Reeves, Hills 8; Rep. Drisko, Hills 5 COMMITTEE: Election Law AMENDED ANALYSIS This bill requires parking at polling places. This bill also authorizes the moderator to establish time limitations on parking in the immediate area of the polling place. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears <strike class="amendmentDeletedText">in brackets and struckthrough.</strike> Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 23Mar2005&#8230; 0651h 05-0768 03/09 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Five AN ACT relative to parking at polling places. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 New Section; Preparation of Polling Place; Parking. Amend RSA 658 by inserting after section 9-a the following new section: 658:9-b Parking. The governing body of each town and ward shall ensure that there is parking available in the immediate area of the polling place. The moderator may establish time limitations on the use of parking spaces in the immediate area of the polling place, if he or she determines that doing so is necessary to ensure the availability of convenient parking for voters. The time limitations may be applied to any areas where a motorist may lawfully park on public property and to any private property suitable for parking made available for the use of the town or ward for the purpose of conducting the election. The moderator may determine the time limitation based on the character of the election, the anticipated voter turnout, and the number of offices or questions to be voted. If the moderator determines that time limitations are necessary, the moderator shall notify the governing body and the chief of police no later than 7 days prior to the date of the election. The governing body or the chief of police shall ensure that appropriate temporary signs are installed prior to election day or prior to the time for the opening of the polls on election day. The moderator shall cause signs to be posted inside the polling place giving voters notice of the time limitations. If a waiting line for voting or for election day registration forms that causes voters to wait for a period of time longer than the established time limitations, the moderator shall suspend enforcement of the time limitations on parking. Once the waiting period for voting or registering has been reduced so that a voter has a reasonable opportunity to register and vote within the time limitations, the moderator may reinstate enforcement of the time limitations. The moderator shall give immediate notice to the law enforcement officer on duty at the polls, or, if none, to the chief of police, of any suspension or reinstatement of the time limitations on parking. Any person parking in violation of a properly-posted time limitation shall be guilty of a violation. 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.