HB 0430 HB 430 - AS INTRODUCED 2001 SESSION 01-0307 03/01 HOUSE BILL 430 AN ACT establishing a commission to study the feasibility of implementing a computerized voter registration system. SPONSORS: Rep. Sova, Graf 11; Rep. Scovner, Graf 13; Rep. Leber, Merr 1 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill establishes a commission to study the feasibility of implementing a computerized voter registration system. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears [ in brackets and struckthrough. ] Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 01-0307 03/01 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand One AN ACT establishing a commission to study the feasibility of implementing a computerized voter registration system. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 Commission Established. There is established a commission to study the feasibility of implementing a computerized voter registration system. 2 Membership and Compensation. I. The members of the commission shall be as follows: (a) Two members of the house of representatives, appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives. (b) Two members of the senate, appointed by the president of the senate. (c) The secretary of state, or designee. (d) The commissioner of administrative services, or designee. (e) One local official, appointed by the governor and council. II. Legislative members of the commission shall receive mileage at the legislative rate when attending to the duties of the commission. 3 Duties. The commission shall investigate the feasibility of implementing a centralized, computerized voter registration system, which may include, but not be limited to, on-line local voter registration and using the Internet for changing or correcting voter registration information. 4 Chairperson; Quorum. The members of the commission shall elect a chairperson from among the members. The first meeting of the commission shall be called by the first-named house member. The first meeting of the commission shall be held within 60 days of the effective date of this section. Four members of the commission shall constitute a quorum. 5 Report. The commission shall report its findings and any recommendations for proposed legislation to the speaker of the house of representatives, the senate president, the house clerk, the senate clerk, the governor, and the state library on or before November 1, 2001. 6 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.