HB 1262 HB 1262-FN-A-LOCAL - AS INTRODUCED 2001 SESSION 01-2030 03/09 HOUSE BILL 1262-FN-A-LOCAL AN ACT relative to implementing on-line exchange of voter registration information and making an appropriation therefor. SPONSORS: Rep. Sova, Graf 11 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill requires the department of state to implement on-line exchange of voter registration information and establishes an oversight commission to monitor the implementation. This bill appropriates $4,000,000 to the department of state for implementation. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears [ in brackets and struckthrough. ] Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 01-2030 03/09 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand One AN ACT relative to implementing on-line exchange of voter registration information and making an appropriation therefor. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 Oversight Commission on On-Line Exchange of Voter Registration Information. I. There is established an oversight commission on on-line exchange of voter registration information consisting of 8 members as follows: (a) Two members of the house of representatives, appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives. (b) Two members of the senate, appointed by the president of the senate. (c) Four members of the public, 2 of whom shall be local officials, appointed by the governor. II. The oversight commission shall monitor the progress of the department of state in implementing on-line exchange of voter registration information. III. The members of the oversight commission shall elect a chairperson from among the members. The first meeting of the commission shall be called by the first-named house member. The first meeting of the commission shall be held within 45 days of the effective date of this section. Five members of the commission shall constitute a quorum. IV. The oversight commission shall submit a report, including any recommendations for proposed legislation, to the speaker of the house of representatives, the senate president, the house clerk, the senate clerk, the governor, and the state library on or before November 1 of each year. V. The oversight commission shall terminate on November 1, 2004. 2 On-Line Exchange of Voter Registration Information. The department of state shall implement on-line exchange of voter registration information, which shall utilize the Internet to receive from and transmit to other states changes in voter registration. Implementation shall be completed no later than November 1, 2004. 3 Appropriation. The sum of $4,000,000 for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2003, is hereby appropriated to the department of state for the purposes of section 2 of this act. This appropriation shall be nonlapsing. This sum shall be in addition to any other funds appropriated to the department of state. The governor is authorized to draw a warrant for said sum out of any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated. 4 Effective Date. This act shall take effect July 1, 2002. LBAO 01-2030 9/19/01 HB 1262-FN-A-LOCAL - FISCAL NOTE AN ACT relative to implementing on-line exchange of voter registration information and making an appropriation therefor. FISCAL IMPACT: The Office of Legislative Budget Assistant is unable to complete a fiscal note for this bill as it is awaiting information from an agency.