HB 0226 HB 226 - AS AMENDED BY THE HOUSE 05apr01...0475h 2001 SESSION 01-0335 03/09 HOUSE BILL 226 AN ACT relative to instructions to voters for straight-ticket voting. SPONSORS: Rep. Arndt, Rock 27; Rep. Weatherspoon, Rock 20; Rep. Clemons, Hills 31; Rep.&#160;Herman, Hills 13 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill modifies the instructions to voters relative to straight-ticket voting to make them more consistent with other provisions in the election laws. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears [ in brackets and struckthrough. ] Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 05apr01...0475h 01-0335 03/09 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand One AN ACT relative to instructions to voters for straight-ticket voting. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 Election Procedure; Voting Procedure; Marking the Ballot, Instructions to Voters; Straight Ticket. Amend RSA 659:17, III to read as follows: III. In a state general election, the following instructions to voters for straight ticket voting shall be printed on the ballot: Make the appropriate mark for the political party of your choice if you wish to vote for all candidates running in that party. If you vote a straight ticket for a party , but wish to vote for [ one or more individual candidates ] a candidate of a different party or write in a candidate for any office , you may do so by making the appropriate mark for such candidate or writing the name of the person in the space provided for that purpose , and your vote [ for an individual candidate will ] so appropriately marked or so written on the lines for write-in votes shall be counted and shall override the straight ticket party vote for that office. However, if you [ vote ] mark your ballot for one candidate for an office or write a person in for an office where more than one candidate is to be elected, be sure to vote individually for all candidates of your choice for that office, because your straight ticket party vote will not be counted for that office. 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.