HB 0353 HB 353-LOCAL &#8211; AS INTRODUCED 2007 SESSION 07-1047 03/09 HOUSE BILL 353-LOCAL AN ACT relative to public access to ballots prior to their destruction. SPONSORS: Rep. Snow, Rock 1 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill permits public access under specified conditions to state ballots remaining in the possession of the clerk prior to their destruction. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears <strike class="amendmentDeletedText">in brackets and struckthrough.</strike> Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 07-1047 03/09 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Seven AN ACT relative to public access to ballots prior to their destruction. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 Destruction of Ballots. Amend RSA 659:100 to read as follows: 659:100 Destruction of Ballots. I. All state election ballots remaining in the possession of the town or city clerk may be destroyed at the expiration of 60 days after a state election. II. Any person may request access to the ballots prior to their destruction, and the clerk shall allow the person to view and record images of the ballots under the supervision of the clerk or designee after the expiration of the 60-day period if: (a) The person makes the request to the clerk in writing prior to the expiration of the 60-day period; (b) The moderator has removed any ballot that may be identified as having been cast by a particular person; (c) The person agrees to record images of all ballots available for viewing and to reproduce such images to any other person requesting them at no greater than the actual cost of reproduction; and (d) The person agrees to pay all costs of the city or town reasonably associated with making the ballots available. 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.