HB 0597 HB 597 - AS INTRODUCED 2001 SESSION 01-0983 03/09 HOUSE BILL 597 AN ACT relative to the duties of inspectors of elections. SPONSORS: Rep. B. Hall, Hills 20; Rep. Sweeney, Hills 31 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill authorize any inspector of election to make a written complaint on the day of an election to the superior court when the inspector of election feels that election law procedures are violated, and the moderator either refuses to act on or report such violations, or acts in a manner which is in itself a violation of election law procedures. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears [ in brackets and struckthrough. ] Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 01-0983 03/09 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand One AN ACT relative to the duties of inspectors of elections. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 New Section; Complaint by Inspector of Election. Amend RSA 666 by inserting after section 13 the following new section: 666:14 Complaint by Inspector of Election. On the day of any election, and no later than the second Friday after any election, any inspector of election may make a written complaint to the judge of the superior court for the county in which the municipality where the election is held is located, stating that in the inspector's belief a violation has occurred under RSA 659:34-44 and stating that the moderator has either refused to act on the violation or to report such violation under RSA 659:45, or stating that the moderator has acted in a manner which is in itself a violation of election law procedures. The complaint may ask for injunctive relief to immediately halt the conduct of the election, for a hearing to set aside the election based either on allegations of fraud which leaves the intent of the voters in doubt or on irregularities in the conduct of the election of such a nature as to affect the result, or for an inquiry concerning such violation and naming the witnesses whom the inspector desires to have examined, in which case the judge shall determine the nature and the scope of the inquiry. Such judge shall immediately proceed to act upon the complaint. 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect January 1, 2002.