HB 0344 CHAPTER 136 HB 344 &#8211; FINAL VERSION 2007 SESSION 07-0992 03/09 HOUSE BILL 344 AN ACT relative to conduct of recounts. SPONSORS: Rep. Whalley, Belk 5 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill requires a candidate requesting a recount who cannot attend the recount to designate a person to act on his or her behalf. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears <strike class="amendmentDeletedText">in brackets and struckthrough.</strike> Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 07-0992 03/09 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Seven AN ACT relative to conduct of recounts. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 136:1 Conduct of Recount. Amend RSA 660:5 to read as follows: 660:5 Conduct of Recount. If directed by the secretary of state, the state police shall collect all ballots requested from the town or city clerks having custody of them and shall deliver them to the public facility designated by the secretary of state. At the time and place so appointed, the ballots cast for such office shall be counted by the secretary of state and such assistants as the secretary of state may require. When counting the ballots, the secretary of state or his or her assistants shall visually inspect each ballot. No mechanical, optical, or electronic device shall be used for the counting of ballots. The candidates, their counsel, and assistants shall have the right to inspect the ballots and participate in the recount under such suitable rules as the secretary of state may adopt. If the candidate requesting the recount cannot attend the recount, the candidate shall designate, in writing, to the secretary of state the name of an individual who will attend the recount and who will be authorized to make decisions on the candidate&#8217;s behalf. Each candidate or his or her counsel or designee shall have the right to protest the counting of or failure to count any ballot. The secretary of state shall thereupon rule on said ballot and shall attach thereto a memorandum stating such ruling and the name of the candidate making the protest. If, at any time during the counting of the ballots, a discrepancy appears in any ballot for any reason, the secretary of state shall suspend the recount until the discrepancy is resolved, at which time the secretary of state shall continue the recount. In no event shall a discrepancy result in a second recount for the same candidate, as provided in RSA 660:3. 136:2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage. Approved: June 18, 2007 Effective: August 17, 2007