HB 0087 HB 87 &#8211; AS INTRODUCED 2011 SESSION 11-0325 03/09 HOUSE BILL 87 AN ACT relative to disqualification of moderators. SPONSORS: Rep. J. Belanger, Hills 5; Rep. Hoelzel, Rock 2; Rep. Drisko, Hills 5 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill permits a moderator who is a candidate for office to handle marked ballots after they have been counted by an electronic ballot counting device. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears <strike class="amendmentDeletedText">in brackets and struckthrough.</strike> Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 11-0325 03/09 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Eleven AN ACT relative to disqualification of moderators. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 Disqualification of Moderator. Amend RSA 658:24 to read as follows: 658:24 Disqualification of Certain Persons. Any person, other than a moderator, clerk, selectman, inspector of election, or supervisor of the checklist, whose name appears on a ballot for an elective position, other than a position of an election official, shall be disqualified from performing duties as an election official in that election. A person so disqualified shall not be considered to have vacated any office but rather only to be absent therefrom. A temporary replacement shall be appointed as provided in RSA 658:22. A moderator, clerk, selectman, inspector of election, or supervisor of the checklist whose name appears on a ballot for an elective position, other than the position of an election official, shall be disqualified from the handling of marked ballots and the counting of votes , except that a moderator may handle marked ballots that have been counted by an electronic ballot counting device . 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.