HB 1255 HB 1255 &#8211; AS INTRODUCED 2014 SESSION 14-2284 04/03 HOUSE BILL 1255 AN ACT making students whose name appears on the voter checklist eligible for in-state tuition rates at schools in the university system of New Hampshire. SPONSORS: Rep. Itse, Rock 10; Rep. Tucker, Rock 23; Rep. Marston, Hills 19; Rep. Hansen, Hills 22; Rep. Hoell, Merr 23; Rep. Lambert, Hills 44 COMMITTEE: Education ANALYSIS This bill provides that a student whose name appears on the voter checklist shall be eligible for in-state tuition rates at schools in the university system of New Hampshire. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears <strike class="amendmentDeletedText">in brackets and struckthrough.</strike> Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 14-2284 04/03 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Fourteen AN ACT making students whose name appears on the voter checklist eligible for in-state tuition rates at schools in the university system of New Hampshire. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 State College and University System; Authority of the Trustees. Amend RSA 187-A:16, XIX to read as follows: XIX. Adopt rules pursuant to RSA 541-A establishing criteria for determining whether students shall be classified as in-state students or out-of-state students for tuition purposes, provided such policy requires any student whose name appears on a voter checklist in this state shall, beginning in the semester following registration and each semester thereafter in which the student remains on the voter checklist, be classified as an in-state student for tuition purposes, and to delegate the administration of such rules to a subcommittee or agent. Any student in the university system who is aggrieved by a final determination of the board of trustees or of any subcommittee or agent of the board denying in-state status for tuition purposes may appeal to the superior court in the county in which the particular division of the university involved is located. Such appeal shall be filed within 30 days after the final determination by the board of trustees. In the superior court, the burden of proof shall be on the appellant to show that the determination of the board of trustees is unreasonable or unlawful and all findings by the board or its properly designated subcommittee or agent shall be deemed to be prima facie lawful and reasonable. The determination of the board of trustees shall be set aside only if, on all the evidence, the court is satisfied that it is unlawful or unreasonable according to the policy as set forth in this section, and additional criteria as may be established and published, to the student bodies of the institutions constituting the university system by the board of trustees. 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.