HB 0153 HB 153 &#8211; AS INTRODUCED 2009 SESSION 09-0208 03/09 HOUSE BILL 153 AN ACT relative to processing of absentee ballots. SPONSORS: Rep. D. Howard, Rock 12; Rep. Moody, Rock 12 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill authorizes processing absentee ballots after the polls have opened and prior to 1:00 p.m., if the moderator has posted advance notice of the early processing. This bill repeals the statute authorizing early opening of absentee ballot return envelopes. This bill also changes the number of voters required to request a postponement of the counting of absentee ballots. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears <strike class="amendmentDeletedText">in brackets and struckthrough.</strike> Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 09-0208 03/09 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Nine AN ACT relative to processing of absentee ballots. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 Processing Absentee Ballots; Postponement. Amend RSA 659:49, II to read as follows: II. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I, upon the written challenges of 10 percent or more of the voters whose names appeared on the checklist prior to the opening of the polls and who are present at the polls no later than 1:00 p.m., the moderator shall postpone the processing of all absentee ballots until after the polls close and prior to the counting of all ballots cast in the election. 2 New Paragraph; Processing Absentee Ballots. Amend RSA 659:49 by inserting after paragraph II the following new paragraph: III. The moderator may authorize the processing of absentee ballots before 1:00 p.m. by posting notice of the time that processing is to begin. The notice shall be posted in at least 2 public places in the town or city at least 10 days prior to the election date. Processing of absentee ballots shall not occur prior to the opening of the polls. Upon the written challenges of 10 percent or more of the voters whose names appeared on the checklist prior to the opening of the polls and who are present at the polls no later than the time stated in the notice, the moderator shall postpone the processing of all absentee ballots until after the polls close and prior to the counting of all ballots cast in the election. 3 Repeal. RSA 659:49-b, relative to opening absentee ballot return envelopes, is repealed. 4 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.