HB 0136 HB 136 &#8211; AS INTRODUCED 2007 SESSION 07-0531 03/01 HOUSE BILL 136 AN ACT relative to approval of voting machines. SPONSORS: Rep. Pierce, Graf 9; Rep. C. Chase, Hills 2 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill inserts an additional standard for approval of voting machines and devices by the ballot law commission. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears <strike class="amendmentDeletedText">in brackets and struckthrough.</strike> Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 07-0531 03/01 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Seven AN ACT relative to approval of voting machines. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 Voting Machines; Approval by Ballot Law Commission. Amend RSA 656:41 to read as follows: 656:41 Approval by Ballot Law Commission. The ballot law commission shall act as a board to examine voting machines and devices for computerized casting and counting of ballots. The commission shall, whenever requested, examine any voting machine or device which may be capable of meeting the requirements for elections held in this state. The commission shall approve such voting machine or device in its discretion, and no voting machine or device shall be used in any election in this state unless it reads the voter's choice on a paper ballot and is of a type so approved by the ballot law commission. Before approving any voting machine or device, the ballot law commission shall, following a public hearing, find that there is clear and convincing evidence that the voting machine or device being examined has been designed and manufactured with adequate safeguards to insure the integrity of election results. Any voting machine or device that is altered must be re-approved before it is used in any election in this state. For the purposes of this section, a machine shall be considered altered if any mechanical or electronic part, hardware, software, or programming has been altered. 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.