HB 0575 HB 575-FN - AS INTRODUCED 2003 SESSION 03-0627 03/09 HOUSE BILL 575-FN AN ACT relative to students at state colleges and universities who are registered to vote in New Hampshire. SPONSORS: Rep. Albert, Straf 67; Rep. Bicknell, Rock 73; Rep. Boyce, Belk 31; Rep. L. Christiansen, Hills 66; Rep. McElroy, Hills 61; Sen. Clegg, Dist 14; Sen. Green Dist 6 COMMITTEE: Finance ANALYSIS This bill provides that any student registered to vote in the state of New Hampshire shall be charged in-state tuition at state colleges and universities. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears [ in brackets and struckthrough. ] Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 03-0627 03/09 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Three AN ACT relative to students at state colleges and universities who are registered to vote in New Hampshire. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 Authority of the Trustees; Differential Tuition Policies. Amend RSA 187-A:16, XVIII to read as follows: XVIII. Establish a differential in the rate of tuition to be charged all in-state and out-of-state students based on the [ dual ] legislative [ policy ] policies of: (a) Limiting the number of out-of-state students who may attend the university system; [ and ] (b) Giving due weight to the fact that the support of the university system is substantially dependent upon legislative appropriations derived from revenue contributed by persons domiciled within the state of New Hampshire ; and (c) Guaranteeing that any student registered to vote in the state of New Hampshire shall be charged in-state tuition . 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage. LBAO 03-0627 1/17/03 Page 2 HB 575-FN - FISCAL NOTE AN ACT relative to students at state colleges and universities who are registered to vote in New Hampshire. FISCAL IMPACT: The University System of New Hampshire (USNH) indicates this bill will decrease state revenue by an indeterminable amount in FY 2004 and each year thereafter. There will be no fiscal impact on county and local revenue or state, county and local expenditures. METHODOLOGY: USNH states it cannot estimate the number of non-resident students who will register to vote locally as a result of this bill, however, it could be significant given the substantial cost savings associated with resident tuition. USNH states there are 5,402 non-resident students at UNH, 2,000 at Keene State and 1,615 at Plymouth State who will be eligible for in-state tuition rates if they register to vote in New Hampshire. The drop in tuition associated with in-state tuition amounts to $9,700 at USNH and $5,660 at Keene State and Plymouth State.