hb 0487 CHAPTER 192 HB 487-FN &#8211; FINAL VERSION 05/11/11 1747s 2011 SESSION 11-0647 03/09 HOUSE BILL 487-FN AN ACT relative to election day registrants. SPONSORS: Rep. Jasper, Hills 27; Rep. DeLemus, Straf 1; Rep. Drisko, Hills 5; Sen. Boutin, Dist 16 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill requires election day registrants who do not verify their identity to return a mailed identity verification. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears <strike class="amendmentDeletedText">in brackets and struckthrough.</strike> Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 05/11/11 1747s 11-0647 03/09 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Eleven AN ACT relative to election day registrants. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 192:1 Identity Verification. Amend RSA 654:12, V to read as follows: V.(a) The election official approving the application for registration as voter of a person who does not present an approved form of photo identification as proof of identity when registering, shall mark the voter registration form to indicate that no photo identification was presented and shall inform the person that, if he or she is a first-time election day registrant in New Hampshire, he or she will receive a letter of identity verification . The person entering the voter information into the centralized voter registration database shall determine if the person is listed in the system as having been previously registered in the town or ward reported by the applicant on the voter registration form. If the person is a new registrant who has not been previously registered anywhere in New Hampshire or if the centralized voter registration database does not confirm a previous registration claimed on the voter registration form, the election official shall cause the record created in the centralized voter registration database to indicate that the person is a new applicant in New Hampshire and that no photo identification was presented. When municipalities enter information on people who register on election day into the centralized voter registration database, to the extent practical applicants who are registering for the first time in New Hampshire and who also register without presenting an approved photo identification shall be entered first. (b) The secretary of state shall cause a letter of identity verification to be mailed by first class mail to each voter identified at a state general election as a first-time election day registrant in New Hampshire who also did not verify his or her identity with an approved photo identification. The letter shall be mailed within 90 days after the general election. The secretary of state shall mark the envelope with instructions to the United States Post Office not to forward the letter and to provide address correction information. The letter shall notify the person that a person who was unable to present photo identification registered or registered and voted using his or her name and address and instruct the person to return the letter within 45 days with a written confirmation that the person registered and voted or to contact the attorney general immediately if he or she did not register and vote. Any voter under a protective order pursuant to RSA 173-B, and whose name does not appear on the checklist as provided under RSA 654:25, shall not be subject to the provisions of paragraph V. (c) The secretary of state shall cause any letters mailed pursuant to subparagraph (b) that are returned as undeliverable by the United States Post Office to be referred to the attorney general. The secretary of state shall also prepare and forward to the attorney general a list of all persons who were mailed letters under subparagraph (b) and have not confirmed their registration. Upon receipt of notice from a person who receives a letter of identity verification that the person did not register and vote, or upon receipt of a referral from the secretary of state, the attorney general shall cause an investigation to be made to determine whether fraudulent registration or voting occurred. 192:2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect January 1, 2012. Approved: June 14, 2011 Effective Date: January 1, 2012