HB 0297 HB 297 - AS INTRODUCED 2003 SESSION 03-0619 03/09 HOUSE BILL 297 AN ACT establishing an alternative nomination process for political organizations. SPONSORS: Rep. Bicknell, Rock 73; Rep. Stritch, Rock 75 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill permits a political organization to have its name placed on the ballot for the state general election by submitting to the secretary of state a membership roll containing names of organization members equal to or greater in number than 2 percent of the total number of persons registered to vote in the state on the date of the previous state general election. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears [ in brackets and struckthrough. ] Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 03-0619 03/09 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Three AN ACT establishing an alternative nomination process for political organizations. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 Nomination of Organization. Amend RSA 655:40-a to read as follows: 655:40-a Nomination of Organization. I. A political organization may have its name placed on the ballot for the state general election by submitting the requisite number of nomination papers, in the form prescribed by the secretary of state, pursuant to RSA 655:42, III. Such papers shall contain the name of the political organization and shall be signed by such persons only as are registered to vote at the state general election. No voter shall sign more than one nomination paper which allows a political organization access to the state general election ballot. II. In lieu of nomination papers, a political organization may have its name placed on the ballot for the state general election by submitting to the secretary of state a membership roll containing names of organization members equal to or greater in number than 2 percent of the total number of persons registered to vote in the state on the date of the previous state general election. All organization members listed on the membership roll shall be persons registered to vote in the state. The organization shall submit with the membership roll a certification from the supervisors of the checklist of each applicable town verifying that each member listed as a voter in the town is actually registered to vote in the town. The deadlines established in RSA 655:40-b and RSA 655:43 shall apply to political organizations nominated by membership roll. 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.