HB 0042 HB 42 &#8211; AS INTRODUCED 2011 SESSION 11-0147 03/01 HOUSE BILL 42 AN ACT relative to the appropriate officials with whom to file for a primary. SPONSORS: Rep. Doherty, Hills 27; Rep. Comerford, Rock 9 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill authorizes state representative and party convention delegate candidates to file for a primary election with the secretary of state. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears <strike class="amendmentDeletedText">in brackets and struckthrough.</strike> Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 11-0147 03/01 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Eleven AN ACT relative to the appropriate officials with whom to file for a primary. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 Nominations; Official With Whom to File. Amend RSA 655:15, II-III to read as follows: II. For state representative in a representative district containing one town or ward and for delegate to a state party convention, the clerk of the town or city in which the officer is to be chosen or the secretary of state . III. For state representative in a representative district containing more than one town or ward, the clerk of the city or town in which the person who is filing is domiciled or the secretary of state ; or, if the person is domiciled in an unincorporated place, the town clerk of the town designated by the secretary of state for such filing as provided in RSA 668 or the secretary of state . 2 Personal Filing. Amend RSA 655:16 to read as follows: 655:16 Personal Filing. Except for those who <strike class="amendmentDeletedText">must</strike> file with a town or city clerk, any person who files on the last day of the filing period must do so in person before the secretary of state; provided, however, that this requirement shall not apply to the filling of vacancies by party committees. 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.