HB 0088 2005 SESSION 05-0360 03/01 HOUSE BILL 88 AN ACT establishing a committee to study voter registration affidavits. SPONSORS: Rep. P. Smith, Rock 3; Rep. Bettencourt, Rock 4; Rep. L. Elliott, Hills 1; Rep. Easson, Straf 3 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill establishes a committee to study voter registration affidavits. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears <strike class="amendmentDeletedText">in brackets and struckthrough.</strike> Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 05-0360 03/01 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Five AN ACT establishing a committee to study voter registration affidavits. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 Committee Established. There is established a committee to study voter registration affidavits. 2 Membership and Compensation. I. The members of the committee shall be as follows: (a) Three members of the house of representatives, appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives. (b) Two members of the senate, appointed by the president of the senate. II. Members of the committee shall receive mileage at the legislative rate when attending to the duties of the committee. 3 Duties. The committee shall study the effectiveness of domicile affidavits used for voter registration, and shall evaluate the feasibility of alternative forms of verification that may be substituted for the domicile affidavit. 4 Chairperson; Quorum. The members of the study committee shall elect a chairperson from among the members. The first meeting of the committee shall be called by the first-named house member. The first meeting of the committee shall be held within 45 days of the effective date of this section. Three members of the committee shall constitute a quorum. 5 Report. The committee shall report its findings and any recommendations for proposed legislation to the speaker of the house of representatives, the president of the senate, the house clerk, the senate clerk, the governor, and the state library on or before November 1, 2005. 6 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.