SB 0123 SB 123 - AS INTRODUCED 2003 SESSION 03-0831 03/01 SENATE BILL 123 AN ACT establishing a commission to study structures for increased voter education and improved enforcement of campaign practices laws. SPONSORS: Sen. Estabrook, Dist 21; Sen. Below, Dist 5; Sen. Cohen, Dist 24; Sen. D'Allesandro, Dist 20; Sen. Foster, Dist 13; Sen. Gallus, Dist 1; Sen. Larsen, Dist 15; Sen. Martel, Dist 18; Sen. Sapareto, Dist 19, Rep. Buckley, Hills 56; Rep. Dickinson, Carr 4 COMMITTEE: Internal Affairs ANALYSIS This bill establishes a commission to study structures for increased voter education and improved enforcement of campaign practices laws. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears [ in brackets and struckthrough. ] Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 03-0831 03/01 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Three AN ACT establishing a commission to study structures for increased voter education and improved enforcement of campaign practices laws. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 Commission Established. There is established a commission to study structures for increased voter education and improved enforcement of campaign practices laws. 2 Membership and Compensation. I. The members of the commission shall be as follows: (a) Four members of the senate, 2 of whom shall be appointed by the president of the senate and 2 of whom shall be approved by the senate minority leader. (b) Four members of the house of representatives, 2 of whom shall be appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives and 2 of whom shall be appointed by the house minority leader. (c) The secretary of state, or designee. (d) The attorney general, or designee. II. Legislative members of the commission shall receive mileage at the legislative rate when attending to the duties of the commission. 3 Duties. The commission shall: I. Determine the scope of state electoral education desirable to provide citizens timely and accurate candidate information. The commission's determination shall include, but not be limited to, consideration of voter guides, forums, and debates. II. Determine the nature and extent of enforcement desirable to improve compliance with campaign practices laws. III. The commission shall consider, but not be limited to, the establishment of a clean elections board as a vehicle for voter education and campaign practices enforcement. In considering such establishment, the commission shall determine: (a) Procedural powers of a proposed board, including hearings process and issuance of public findings. (b) Civil penalties available in lieu of misdemeanor prosecution. (c) Board relationship to the secretary of state's office, department of justice, and ballot law commission. (d) Annual reporting of board activities and board recommendations for changes of law or administration. 4 Chairperson; Quorum. The members of the study commission shall elect a chairperson from among the members. The first meeting of the commission shall be called by the first-named senate member. The first meeting of the commission shall be held within 45 days of the effective date of this section. Four members of the commission shall constitute a quorum. 5 Report. The commission shall report its findings and any recommendations for proposed legislation to the president of the senate, the speaker of the house of representatives, the senate clerk, the house clerk, the governor, and the state library on or before November 1, 2003. 6 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.