HB 0192 HB 192-FN &#8211; AS INTRODUCED 2007 SESSION 07-0458 03/05 HOUSE BILL 192-FN AN ACT requiring vote counting by election officials at polling places using vote counting machines. SPONSORS: Rep. C. Chase, Hills 2; Rep. B. Richardson, Ches 5; Rep. Hall, Hills 5; Rep. Clemons, Hills 24; Sen. Burling, Dist 5 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill requires that election officials count the votes for at least one office at each polling place using a vote counting machine. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears <strike class="amendmentDeletedText">in brackets and struckthrough.</strike> Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 07-0458 03/05 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Seven AN ACT requiring vote counting by election officials at polling places using vote counting machines. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 New Paragraph; Voting Machines; Rules; Count by Election Officials. Amend RSA 656:42 by inserting after paragraph VI the following new paragraph: VII. At each polling place using a voting machine or device to count ballots, the election officials shall count the votes cast for at least one contested office on the ballot. At the discretion of the moderator, election officials may count the votes cast for additional offices. If the count of the election officials does not match the count registered by the machine or device for the office, the count of the election officials shall be the final count for that office. 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage. LBAO 07-0458 1/17/07 HB 192-FN - FISCAL NOTE AN ACT requiring vote counting by election officials at polling places using vote counting machines. FISCAL IMPACT: The NH Municipal Association states this bill will increase local expenditures by an indeterminable amount in FY 2007 and each fiscal year thereafter. There will be no fiscal impact on state, county and local revenue or state and county expenditures. METHODOLOGY: The NH Municipal Association states this bill requires municipal election officials to count the votes for at least one contested office on the ballot at every polling place that uses a voting machine. The Association states some municipalities pay election officials an hourly wage, while others pay a daily stipend. In municipalities that pay hourly wages, this bill would result in increased costs because of the additional labor required. The Association states it is unable to determine total additional local expenditures from this requirement because the amount of additional time involved would vary depending on the municipality, the elected office for which the officials choose to count the votes, and the number of votes cast.