HB 1144 HB 1144 - AS INTRODUCED 2001 SESSION 01-2312 03/01 HOUSE BILL 1144 AN ACT establishing a committee to study access to the polls by disabled persons and the use of new technology to accommodate disabled voters. SPONSORS: Rep. Buckley, Hills 44 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill establishes a committee to study access to the polls by disabled persons and the use of new technology to accommodate disabled voters. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears [ in brackets and struckthrough. ] Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 01-2312 03/01 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand One AN ACT establishing a committee to study access to the polls by disabled persons and the use of new technology to accommodate disabled voters. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 Committee Established. There is established a committee to study access to the polls by disabled persons and the use of new technology to accommodate disabled voters. 2 Membership and Compensation. I. The members of the committee shall be as follows: (a) Three members of the house of representatives, appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives. (b) Three members of the senate, appointed by the president of the senate. II. Members of the committee shall receive mileage at the legislative rate when attending to the duties of the committee. 3 Duties. The committee shall study access to the polls by disabled persons and the use of new technology to accommodate disabled voters. 4 Chairperson; Quorum. The members of the study committee shall elect a chairperson from among the members. The first meeting of the committee shall be called by the first-named house member. The first meeting of the committee shall be held within 45 days of the effective date of this section. Four members of the committee shall constitute a quorum. 5 Report. The committee shall report its findings and any recommendations for proposed legislation to the speaker of the house of representatives, the senate president, the house clerk, the senate clerk, the governor, and the state library on or before November 1, 2002. 6 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.