HB 1329 HB 1329 &#8211; AS INTRODUCED 2010 SESSION 10-2211 03/05 HOUSE BILL 1329 AN ACT establishing a committee to study voter fraud. SPONSORS: Rep. L. Christiansen, Hills 27 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill establishes a committee to study voter fraud. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears <strike class="amendmentDeletedText">in brackets and struckthrough.</strike> Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 10-2211 03/05 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Ten AN ACT establishing a committee to study voter fraud. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 Committee Established. There is established a committee to study voter fraud. 2 Membership and Compensation. I. The members of the committee shall be as follows: (a) Three members of the house of representatives, one of whom shall be a member of the judiciary committee and one of whom shall be a member of the election law committee, appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives. (b) Two members of the senate, one of whom shall be a member of the judiciary committee, appointed by the president of the senate. II. Members of the committee shall receive mileage at the legislative rate when attending to the duties of the committee. 3 Duties. The committee shall determine the extent to which voter fraud has occurred at recent elections in New Hampshire. The committee shall also evaluate and recommend methods for deterring voter fraud in the future. The committee may solicit information from any source deemed appropriate by the committee. 4 Chairperson; Quorum. The members of the study committee shall elect a chairperson from among the members. The first meeting of the committee shall be called by the first-named house member. The first meeting of the committee shall be held within 45 days of the effective date of this section. Three members of the committee shall constitute a quorum. 5 Report. The committee shall report its findings and any recommendations for proposed legislation to the speaker of the house of representatives, the president of the senate, the house clerk, the senate clerk, the governor, and the state library on or before November 1, 2010. 6 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.