HB 1337 HB 1337 &#8211; AS INTRODUCED 2014 SESSION 14-2554 03/05 HOUSE BILL 1337 AN ACT relative to authority for removal of political advertising. SPONSORS: Rep. Long, Hills 42 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill authorizes election offers to remove improperly placed political advertising. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears <strike class="amendmentDeletedText">in brackets and struckthrough.</strike> Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 14-2554 03/05 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Fourteen AN ACT relative to authority for removal of political advertising. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 Removal of Political Advertising. Amend RSA 664:17 to read as follows: 664:17 Placement and Removal of Political Advertising. No political advertising shall be placed on or affixed to any public property including highway rights-of-way or private property without the owner&#8217;s consent. All political advertising shall be removed by the candidate no later than the second Friday following the election unless the election is a primary and the advertising concerns a candidate who is a winner in the primary. Signs shall not be placed on or affixed to utility poles or highway signs. Political advertising may be placed within state-owned rights-of-way as long as the advertising does not obstruct the safe flow of traffic and the advertising is placed with the consent of the owner of the land over which the right-of-way passes. No person shall remove, deface, or knowingly destroy any political advertising which is placed on or affixed to public property or any private property except for removal by the owner of the property, persons authorized by the owner of the property, or a law enforcement officer or election officer, as defined in RSA 652:14, removing improper advertising. Political advertising placed on or affixed to any public property may be removed by state, city, or town maintenance or law enforcement personnel or election officer . Political advertising removed prior to election day by state, city, or town maintenance or law enforcement personnel or election officers shall be kept until one week after the election at a place designated by the state, city, or town so that the candidate may retrieve the items. 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.