CACR 0004 CACR 4 &#8211; AS AMENDED BY THE HOUSE 18Feb2009&#8230; 0156h 2009 SESSION 09-0768 06/03 CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 4 RELATING TO: elections. PROVIDING THAT: certain persons may vote in primaries prior to turning 18 years of age. SPONSORS: Rep. B. Browne, Straf 4 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This constitutional amendment concurrent resolution provides that 17-years-olds may vote in primaries if they will be 18 years of age on the date of the general election. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears <strike class="amendmentDeletedText">in brackets and struckthrough.</strike> Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 18Feb2009&#8230; 0156h 09-0768 06/03 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Nine CONCURRENT RESOLUTION PROPOSING CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT RELATING TO: elections. PROVIDING THAT: certain persons may vote in primaries prior to turning 18 years of age. Be it Resolved by the House of Representatives, the Senate concurring, that the Constitution of New Hampshire be amended as follows: I. That article 11 of the first part of the constitution be amended to read as follows: [Art.] 11. [Elections and Elective Franchises.] All elections are to be free, and every inhabitant of the state of 18 years of age and upwards shall have an equal right to vote in any election. A person who is 17 years of age may vote in a primary election preceding a general election at which such person will be 18 years of age. Every person shall be considered an inhabitant for the purposes of voting in the town, ward, or unincorporated place where he or she has his or her domicile. No person shall have the right to vote under the constitution of this state who has been convicted of treason, bribery , or any willful violation of the election laws of this state or of the United States; but the supreme court may, on notice to the attorney general, restore the privilege to vote to any person who may have forfeited it by conviction of such offenses. The general court shall provide by law for voting by qualified voters who at the time of the biennial or state elections, or of the primary elections therefor, or of city elections, or of town elections by official ballot, are absent from the city or town of which they are inhabitants, or who by reason of physical disability are unable to vote in person, in the choice of any officer or officers to be elected or upon any question submitted at such election. Voting registration and polling places shall be easily accessible to all persons including disabled and elderly persons who are otherwise qualified to vote in the choice of any officer or officers to be elected or upon any question submitted at such election. The right to vote shall not be denied to any person because of the nonpayment of any tax. Every inhabitant of the state, having the proper qualifications, has equal right to be elected into office. II. That the above amendment proposed to the constitution be submitted to the qualified voters of the state at the state general election to be held in November, 2010. III. That the selectmen of all towns, cities, wards, and places in the state are directed to insert in their warrants for the said 2010 election an article to the following effect: To decide whether the amendments of the constitution proposed by the 2009 session of the general court shall be approved. IV. That the wording of the question put to the qualified voters shall be: &#8220;Are you in favor of amending article 11 of the first part of the constitution to read as follows: [Art.] 11. [Elections and Elective Franchises.] All elections are to be free, and every inhabitant of the state of 18 years of age and upwards shall have an equal right to vote in any election. A person who is 17 years of age may vote in a primary election preceding a general election at which such person will be 18 years of age. Every person shall be considered an inhabitant for the purposes of voting in the town, ward, or unincorporated place where he or she has his or her domicile. No person shall have the right to vote under the constitution of this state who has been convicted of treason, bribery, or any willful violation of the election laws of this state or of the United States; but the supreme court may, on notice to the attorney general, restore the privilege to vote to any person who may have forfeited it by conviction of such offenses. The general court shall provide by law for voting by qualified voters who at the time of the biennial or state elections, or of the primary elections therefor, or of city elections, or of town elections by official ballot, are absent from the city or town of which they are inhabitants, or who by reason of physical disability are unable to vote in person, in the choice of any officer or officers to be elected or upon any question submitted at such election. Voting registration and polling places shall be easily accessible to all persons including disabled and elderly persons who are otherwise qualified to vote in the choice of any officer or officers to be elected or upon any question submitted at such election. The right to vote shall not be denied to any person because of the nonpayment of any tax. Every inhabitant of the state, having the proper qualifications, has equal right to be elected into office.&#8221; V. That the secretary of state shall print the question to be submitted on a separate ballot or on the same ballot with other constitutional questions. The ballot containing the question shall include 2 squares next to the question allowing the voter to vote &#8220;Yes&#8221; or &#8220;No.&#8221; If no cross is made in either of the squares, the ballot shall not be counted on the question. The outside of the ballot shall be the same as the regular official ballot except that the words &#8220;Questions Relating to Constitutional Amendments proposed by the 2009 General Court&#8221; shall be printed in bold type at the top of the ballot. VI. That if the proposed amendment is approved by 2/3 of those voting on the amendment, it becomes effective when the governor proclaims its adoption.