SB 0145 SB 145-FN &#8211; AS INTRODUCED 2011 SESSION 11-1018 03/05 SENATE BILL 145-FN AN ACT relative to state employees who volunteer as election workers. SPONSORS: Sen. Larsen, Dist 15 COMMITTEE: Executive Departments and Administration ANALYSIS This bill requires that state employees be permitted to receive paid leave when volunteering on biennial election day. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears <strike class="amendmentDeletedText">in brackets and struckthrough.</strike> Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 11-1018 03/05 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Eleven AN ACT relative to state employees who volunteer as election workers. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 New Section; Holidays; Election Day. Amend RSA 288 by inserting after section 4 the following new section: 288:5 Election Day. Any state employee who volunteers as an election worker at a polling place on the day on which the biennial election is held shall be paid for any work time missed due to such volunteer service and shall not be required to use annual or any other accrued leave to which the employee is entitled. 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage. LBAO 11-1018 Revised 02/23/11 SB 145 FISCAL NOTE AN ACT relative to state employees who volunteer as election workers. FISCAL IMPACT: The Department of Administrative Services states this bill may increase state expenditures by an indeterminable amount in FY 2013 and FY 2015. The New Hampshire Municipal Association states this bill may decrease local expenditures by an indeterminable amount in FY 2013 and FY 2015. There will be no fiscal impact on state and local revenues, or county revenues and expenditures. METHODOLOGY: The Department of Administrative Services states this bill would allow state employees who volunteer as election workers on the day of a biennial election to receive paid time off without being required to use accrued leave time. The Department states the only fiscal impact as a result of this bill would be overtime costs paid to an employee who was needed to work as a result of another employee choosing to volunteer as an election worker. The Department states it is not able to estimate this potential cost as it has no way of knowing how many individuals in those positions would choose to volunteer as an election worker. The New Hampshire Municipal Association states this bill could potentially result in the displacement of paid election workers by state workers who choose to volunteer. The Association states municipal election workers are typically paid minimum wage and to the extent those individuals were replaced by state workers volunteering, there could be a potential savings for municipalities. The Association is unable to estimate the potential decrease, if any, to local expenditures as a result of this bill.