HB 0340 HB 340 &#8211; AS INTRODUCED 2009 SESSION 09-0791 03/04 HOUSE BILL 340 AN ACT relative to polling places. SPONSORS: Rep. Pierce, Graf 9 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill requires that polling places be of sufficient size and layout that persons waiting in line to register or vote not be required to wait outside the building. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears <strike class="amendmentDeletedText">in brackets and struckthrough.</strike> Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 09-0791 03/04 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Nine AN ACT relative to polling places. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 Preparation of Polling Places; Arrangement. Amend RSA 658:9, I to read as follows: I. The selectmen of each town and ward shall provide for a suitable place in which to hold state elections . The polling place shall be of sufficient size and layout that persons waiting in line to register or to vote shall not be required to wait outside the building; the selectmen shall not be required to comply with such requirement if no facility of sufficient size and layout exists in the town or ward. <strike class="amendmentDeletedText">and</strike> The selectmen shall see that the <strike class="amendmentDeletedText">same</strike> polling place is warmed, lighted, and furnished with proper supplies and conveniences. Such supplies and conveniences shall include a ballot box and a sufficient number of pens with machine-readable ink or soft black lead pencils and booths with shelves to enable the voter to mark his or her ballot screened from all observation as to the manner in which he or she does so. Each place in which state elections are held shall be easily accessible as provided in RSA 658:9-a to all persons including persons with disabilities and elderly persons who are otherwise qualified to vote in the choice of any officer or officers to be elected or upon any question submitted at such election. The selectmen of each town and ward shall be charged with the responsibility to see that the flag of the United States is displayed inside and, weather conditions permitting, flown outside the polling place on election day. A guardrail shall be so constructed and placed so that only such persons as are inside such rail can approach within 6 feet of the ballot box and of the voting booths. The arrangements shall be such that the voting booths can be reached only by passing within the guardrail. 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.