HB 0282 HB 282 &#8211; AS INTRODUCED 2005 SESSION 05-0823 03/04 HOUSE BILL 282 AN ACT establishing a committee to study issues relating to voter registration and identification requirements. SPONSORS: Rep. Price, Hills 26 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill establishes a committee to study issues relating to voter registration and identification requirements. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears <strike class="amendmentDeletedText">in brackets and struckthrough.</strike> Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 05-0823 03/04 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Five AN ACT establishing a committee to study issues relating to voter registration and identification requirements. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 Committee Established. There is established a committee to study issues relating to voter registration and identification requirements. 2 Membership and Compensation. I. The members of the committee shall be as follows: (a) Three members of the house of representatives, appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives. (b) Three members of the senate, appointed by the president of the senate. II. Members of the committee shall receive mileage at the legislative rate when attending to the duties of the committee. 3 Duties. The committee shall study issues relating to: I. Voter identification requirements. II. Election day registration. III. Potential for provisional ballots. IV. Prevention of persons voting in multiple locations. V. Requirements of domicile. VI. Any other subject relating to voter registration and identification requirements. 4 Chairperson; Quorum. The members of the study committee shall elect a chairperson from among the members. The first meeting of the committee shall be called by the first-named house member. The first meeting of the committee shall be held within 45 days of the effective date of this section. Four members of the committee shall constitute a quorum. 5 Report. The committee shall report its findings and any recommendations for proposed legislation to the speaker of the house of representatives, the president of the senate, the house clerk, the senate clerk, the governor, and the state library on or before November 1, 2005. 6 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.