sb 0403 CHAPTER 300 SB 403 &#8211; FINAL VERSION 03/22/06 1390s 05/24/06 2367CofC 2006 SESSION 06-3036 03/10 SENATE BILL 403 AN ACT relative to verification of identity when a person registers or attempts to vote. SPONSORS: Sen. Green, Dist 6; Sen. Barnes, Dist 17; Sen. Bragdon, Dist 11; Sen. Clegg, Dist 14; Sen. Gallus, Dist 1; Sen. Gatsas, Dist 16; Sen. Johnson, Dist 2; Sen. Letourneau, Dist 19; Sen. Martel, Dist 18; Sen. Odell, Dist 8; Sen. Roberge, Dist 9 COMMITTEE: Public and Municipal Affairs AMENDED ANALYSIS This bill: I. Requires proof of identity by persons registering to vote and modifies certain procedures for voter registration applications. II. Requires supervisors of the checklist to include election day changes of address in the centralized voter registration database. III. Adds the mailing address contained on the checklist to the public information subject to RSA 91-A. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears <strike class="amendmentDeletedText">in brackets and struckthrough.</strike> Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 03/22/06 1390s 05/24/06 2367CofC 06-3036 03/10 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Six AN ACT relative to verification of identity when a person registers or attempts to vote. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 300:1 New Paragraphs; Determining Qualifications of Applicant; Identity; Verification. Amend RSA 654:12 by inserting after paragraph II the following new paragraphs: III. To prove the qualifications set forth in paragraphs I and II, an applicant for registration as a voter must prove his or her identity to establish that the evidence used to prove age, citizenship, and domicile relate to the applicant. A person who has in his or her immediate possession a photo identification approved for use by paragraph II must present that identification when applying for registration. A person who does not have an approved photo identification with him or her may establish identity through any reasonable means, including, but not limited to: photo identification not approved by paragraph II, but determined to be legitimate by the supervisors of the checklist or clerk, verification of the person&#8217;s identity by another person registered as a voter and known to the supervisor or clerk, or completion of the affidavit to be completed by a challenged voter. Residents of a nursing home or similar facility may prove their identity through verification of identity by the administrator of the facility or by his or her designee. For the purposes of this section, the application of a person whose identity has been verified by an official of a nursing home or similar facility shall be treated in the same manner as the application of a person who proved his or her identity with a photo identification. IV. Any person who is applying for registration as a voter and who is currently registered to vote in a different town or ward in New Hampshire shall complete the voter registration form provided for in RSA 654:7. If the election official receiving the application confirms through the centralized voter registration database required by RSA 654:45 that the applicant is currently registered to vote in New Hampshire, the applicant shall prove identity and domicile, but shall not be required to prove his or her age or citizenship. V.(a) The election official approving the application for registration as voter of a person who does not present an approved form of photo identification as proof of identity when registering, shall mark the voter registration form to indicate that no photo identification was presented. The person entering the voter information into the centralized voter registration database shall determine if the person is listed in the system as having been previously registered in the town or ward reported by the applicant on the voter registration form. If the person is a new registrant who has not been previously registered anywhere in New Hampshire or if the centralized voter registration database does not confirm a previous registration claimed on the voter registration form, the election official shall cause the record created in the centralized voter registration database to indicate that the person is a new applicant in New Hampshire and that no photo identification was presented. When municipalities enter information on people who register on election day into the centralized voter registration database, to the extent practical applicants who are registering for the first time in New Hampshire and who also register without presenting an approved photo identification shall be entered first. (b) The secretary of state shall cause a letter of identity verification to be mailed by first class mail to each voter identified at a state general election as a first-time election day registrant in New Hampshire who also did not verify his or her identity with an approved photo identification. The letter shall be mailed within 90 days after the general election. The secretary of state shall mark the envelope with instructions to the United States Post Office not to forward the letter and to provide address correction information. The letter shall notify the person that a person who was unable to present photo identification registered or registered and voted using his or her name and address and instruct the person to contact the attorney general immediately if he or she did not register and vote. (c) The secretary of state shall cause any letters mailed pursuant to subparagraph (b) that are returned as undeliverable by the United States Post Office to be referred to the attorney general. Upon receipt of notice from a person who receives a letter of identity verification that the person did not register and vote, or upon receipt of a referral from the secretary of state, the attorney general shall cause an investigation to be made to determine whether fraudulent registration or voting occurred. 300:2 Obtaining a Ballot; Verification of Age. Amend RSA 659:13 to read as follows: 659:13 Obtaining a Ballot. A person desiring to vote shall, before being admitted to the enclosed space within the guardrail, announce his or her name to one of the ballot clerks who shall thereupon repeat the name; and, if the name is found on the checklist by the ballot clerk, the ballot clerk shall put a checkmark beside it and again repeat the name. The ballot clerk shall state the address listed on the checklist for the voter, and ask if the address is correct; if the address on the checklist is not correct, the ballot clerk shall correct the address in red on the paper checklist and the supervisors of the checklist shall cause the centralized voter registration database to reflect the correction . The voter, if still qualified to vote in the town or ward and unless challenged as provided for in RSA 659:27-33, shall then be allowed to enter the space enclosed by the guardrail. After the voter enters the enclosed space, the ballot clerk shall give the voter one of each ballot to be voted on in that election which shall be folded as it was upon receipt from the secretary of state. 300:3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect September 1, 2006. Approved: Enacted in accordance with Article 44, Part II, of the New Hampshire Constitution, without the signature of the governor, June 17, 2006. Effective: September 1, 2006