HB 0775 HB 775 - AS INTRODUCED 2003 SESSION 03-0512 03/09 HOUSE BILL 775 AN ACT establishing a New Hampshire presidential primary advisory commission. SPONSORS: Rep. Splaine, Rock 86; Rep. Flanagan, Rock 78 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill establishes a New Hampshire presidential primary advisory commission to support and advise the secretary of state in preserving New Hampshire's first-in-the-nation presidential primary. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears [ in brackets and struckthrough. ] Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 03-0512 03/09 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Three AN ACT establishing a New Hampshire presidential primary advisory commission. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 New Section; New Hampshire Presidential Primary Advisory Commission. Amend RSA 653 by inserting after section 9 the following new section: 653:9-a New Hampshire Presidential Primary Advisory Commission. I. There is established a New Hampshire presidential primary advisory commission to support and advise the secretary of state in preserving New Hampshire's first-in-the-nation presidential primary. II. The members of the commission shall be as follows:. (a) The governor. (b) A current member of New Hampshire's congressional delegation determined by agreement among those members and the secretary of state. (c) The secretary of state. (d) Two members appointed by the secretary of state, who are registered as Republicans. (e) Two members appointed by the secretary of state who are registered as Democrats. III. Members of the commission shall serve terms which are coterminous with their terms in office or with the term of the appointing authority. Appointed members of the commission may be re-appointed. Vacancies among appointed members shall be filled by the appointing authority. IV. The secretary of state shall serve as chairperson. The commission shall meet at the call of the chair. Recording of meetings, staff support, logistical support, and reimbursement for costs of the commission shall be provided by the department of state, upon approval of the secretary of state. 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.