HB 0141 HB 141 &#8211; AS INTRODUCED 2007 SESSION 07-0595 03/05 HOUSE BILL 141 AN ACT giving voters the option of bypassing voting machines. SPONSORS: Rep. Hall, Hills 5; Rep. Harvey, Hills 21 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill requires that cities and towns using voting machines permit voters to bypass the voting machines and have their ballots counted by the election officials. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears <strike class="amendmentDeletedText">in brackets and struckthrough.</strike> Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 07-0595 03/05 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Seven AN ACT giving voters the option of bypassing voting machines. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 Voting Machines; Adoption; Voter Option. Amend RSA 656:40 to read as follows: 656:40 Adoption. The mayor and aldermen of any city or the selectmen of any town, subject to the approval of the ballot law commission, may authorize the use of one or more voting machines or devices for computerized casting and counting of ballots in such city or town on a trial basis for any regular or special election and pay the expense of such trial from any available funds. The use of such machines or devices so authorized shall be valid for all purposes , provided that the city or town adopts a procedure whereby each voter is given the option of bypassing the voting machine or device and having his or her paper ballot counted by an election official . Any town, or the mayor and aldermen of any city, may vote to lease or purchase voting machines or devices for the elections held in said town or city. Any town, or the mayor and aldermen of any city, so acting shall notify the secretary of state of the action taken in regard to voting machines or devices; and, after said action, voting machines or devices shall be used in said town or city in accordance with said vote or authorization. Notwithstanding any vote of adoption of voting machines, the mayor and aldermen of any city or the selectmen of any town may petition the ballot law commission to allow the use of paper ballots in any one or more elections. 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.