HB 0048 HB 48 &#8211; AS INTRODUCED 2005 SESSION 05-0071 03/09 HOUSE BILL 48 AN ACT establishing a committee to study ballot reform. SPONSORS: Rep. Weed, Ches 3; Rep. Pratt, Ches 2; Rep. Hilliard, Straf 2; Rep. P. Allen; Ches 6 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill establishes a committee to study ballot reform. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears <strike class="amendmentDeletedText">in brackets and struckthrough.</strike> Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 05-0071 03/09 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Five AN ACT establishing a committee to study ballot reform. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 Committee Established. There is established a committee to study ballot reform. 2 Membership and Compensation. I. The members of the committee shall be as follows: (a) Three members of the house of representatives, appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives. (b) Three members of the senate, appointed by the president of the senate. II. Members of the committee shall receive mileage at the legislative rate when attending to the duties of the committee. 3 Duties. The committee shall study the feasibility and advisability of ballot reform proposals, including, but not limited to, the adoption of &#8220;instant runoff voting,&#8221; a &#8220;none of the above&#8221; option, and the reconciliation of federal and state laws in a manner that enables a standardized federal ballot. 4 Chairperson; Quorum. The members of the study committee shall elect a chairperson from among the members. The first meeting of the committee shall be called by the first-named house member. The first meeting of the committee shall be held within 45 days of the effective date of this section. Four members of the committee shall constitute a quorum. 5 Report. The committee shall report its findings and any recommendations for proposed legislation to the speaker of the house of representatives, the senate president, the house clerk, the senate clerk, the governor, and the state library on or before November 1, 2005. 6 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.