HB 0268 HB 268 - AS INTRODUCED 2001 SESSION 01-0400 03/09 HOUSE BILL 268 AN ACT relative to apportioning presidential electors. SPONSORS: Rep. Brewster, Merr 1; Rep. Dickinson, Carr 2 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill apportions the state's presidential electors so that 2 at-large presidential electors shall cast their ballots for the presidential and vice-presidential candidates who received the highest number of votes in the state, and congressional district presidential electors shall cast their ballots for the presidential and vice-presidential candidates who received the highest number of votes in their respective congressional districts. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears [ in brackets and struckthrough. ] Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 01-0400 03/09 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand One AN ACT relative to apportioning presidential electors. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 Nomination of Presidential Electors; Designation. Amend RSA 655:54 to read as follows: 655:54 Nomination of Presidential Electors. Presidential electors shall be nominated by state party conventions as provided in RSA 667:21. The party shall nominate 2 at-large presidential electors and one presidential elector for each congressional district. 2 Meetings of Presidential Electors; Conduct; Apportionment. Amend RSA 660:29 to read as follows: 660:29 Conduct. The electors shall give their votes for president and vice-president of the United States in Concord on said day and shall proceed according to law. Each at-large presidential elector shall cast his or her ballot for the presidential and vice-presidential candidates who received the highest number of votes in the state. Each congressional district presidential elector shall cast his or her ballot for the presidential and vice-presidential candidates who received the highest number of votes in his or her congressional district. 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.