HB 0484 HB 484 - AS INTRODUCED 2001 SESSION 01-0479 03/01 HOUSE BILL 484 AN ACT relative to disclosure of presidential election results. SPONSORS: Rep. Batchelder, Ches 2 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill prohibits the announcement of final counts for or the declaration of persons elected to the office of elector of the president and vice-president of the United States earlier than 10:00 p.m. on the date of the state general election. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears [ in brackets and struckthrough. ] Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 01-0479 03/01 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand One AN ACT relative to disclosure of presidential election results. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 Announcement of Final Count; Presidential Electors. Amend RSA 659:70 to read as follows: 659:70 Final Counting; Result. The final count of all votes on all ballots cast at the central and additional polling places, if any, shall be combined and the moderator shall announce the final count for each office. The final count for the offices of elector of the president and vice-president of the United States shall be announced no earlier than 10:00 p.m. on the date of the state general election. 2 Canvass and Declaration; Presidential Electors. Amend RSA 659:81 to read as follows: 659:81 Canvass and Declaration Generally. Except as provided in RSA 659:82, when the secretary of state has received the returns for an office from all towns or wards comprising the elective district for that office, [ he ] the secretary of state shall examine, record , and total such returns and shall declare elected to the office the same number of persons as the number of officers to which the district is entitled; provided that those persons declared officers-elect shall be those persons who received the highest number of votes cast for said office. The secretary of state shall declare the persons elected to the office of elector of the president and vice-president of the United States no earlier than 10:00 p.m. on the date of the state general election. 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.