HB 0245 HB 245 &#8211; AS INTRODUCED 2011 SESSION 11-0492 05/09 HOUSE BILL 245 AN ACT establishing a committee to study election of the attorney general by the legislature. SPONSORS: Rep. Marshall Quandt, Rock 13; Rep. Matt Quandt, Rock 13; Rep. Mirski, Graf 10; Rep. Shuler, Rock 11 COMMITTEE: Executive Departments and Administration ANALYSIS This bill establishes a committee to study election of the attorney general by the legislature. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears <strike class="amendmentDeletedText">in brackets and struckthrough.</strike> Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 11-0492 05/09 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Eleven AN ACT establishing a committee to study election of the attorney general by the legislature. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 Committee Established. There is established a committee to study election of the attorney general by the legislature. 2 Membership and Compensation. I. The members of the committee shall be as follows: (a) Three members of the house of representatives, appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives. (b) Two members of the senate, appointed by the president of the senate. II. Members of the committee shall receive mileage at the legislative rate when attending to the duties of the committee. 3 Duties. The committee shall study the feasibility of amending the New Hampshire constitution to provide for election of the attorney general by the legislature. The committee may solicit information and testimony from those with experience and expertise relevant to the study. 4 Chairperson; Quorum. The members of the study committee shall elect a chairperson from among the members. The first meeting of the committee shall be called by the first-named house member. The first meeting of the committee shall be held within 45 days of the effective date of this section. Three members of the committee shall constitute a quorum. 5 Report. The committee shall report its findings and any recommendations for proposed legislation to the speaker of the house of representatives, the president of the senate, the house clerk, the senate clerk, the governor, and the state library on or before November 1, 2011. 6 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.