hb 0376 CHAPTER 37 HB 376 - FINAL VERSION 05apr01...0427h 2001 SESSION 01-0794 08/01 HOUSE BILL 376 AN ACT allowing county commissioners serving 4-year terms to vote at state party conventions. SPONSORS: Rep. Patten, Carr 9 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill allows incumbent county commissioners serving 4-year terms to vote at state party conventions. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears [ in brackets and struckthrough. ] Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 05apr01...0427h 01-0794 08/01 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand One AN ACT allowing county commissioners serving 4-year terms to vote at state party conventions. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 37:1 State Party Conventions; Date, Call and Purposes; County Commissioners Serving 4-Year Terms. Amend RSA 667:21, I to read as follows: I. Not earlier than the third Tuesday of September following any primary, and not later than the last Tuesday of October, upon the call of the chairman of the state committee of the party, the nominees of each party for the offices of governor, United States senator, United States representative, executive councilors, state senators, county officers, representatives, state delegates elected, the incumbent United States senator or senators and the incumbent county commissioners serving 4-year terms, if any, whose term or terms shall not expire during the January following that year's general election, shall meet in state convention for the purpose of adopting the platform of their party, nominating presidential electors and effecting an organization for the following 2 years. The names and domiciles of the presidential electors nominated by such convention shall be forthwith certified to the secretary of state by the chairman and the clerk of the convention. Upon receipt of the foregoing certifications, the secretary of state shall publish in some paper of general circulation the names of the persons found by him to have been chosen as candidates for presidential electors by the several parties. 37:2 State Party Conventions; Party Organization; County Commissioners Serving 4-Year Terms. Amend RSA 667:22 to read as follows: 667:22 Party Organization. The nominees from a party, state delegates of each county, the incumbent United&#160;States senator or senators and the incumbent county commissioners serving 4-year terms, if any, if they have met the requirements of RSA 667:21, shall determine the membership of a county committee for their party either in said state convention or in county convention upon call of the chairman of the state committee. The county committee shall consist of such number of persons as the nominees from a party, the state delegates of each county, the incumbent United&#160;States senator or senators and the incumbent county commissioners serving 4-year terms, if any, if they have met the requirements of RSA 667:21, shall determine to apportion to each county. The members of several committees thus chosen shall constitute the state committee of the party. Resignations from the state committee shall be received by the state committee and the state committee shall set a place and time and manner for filling such vacancies. A state committee may choose as its officers persons not members of the committee and such officers shall be ex officio members of the committee. The party members in each town, ward or city may effect such an organization as they may deem expedient for advancing the purposes of their party. 37:3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage. (Approved: June 8, 2001) (Effective Date: August 7, 2001)