SB 0284 SB 284-FN &#8211; AS INTRODUCED 2014 SESSION 14-2727 03/01 SENATE BILL 284-FN AN ACT relative to eligibility to vote. SPONSORS: Sen. Cataldo, Dist 6 COMMITTEE: Public and Municipal Affairs ANALYSIS This bill provides that students paying out-of-state tuition at a college or university operated by the university system of New Hampshire or the community college system of New Hampshire shall be considered to be claiming domicile in a state other than New Hampshire for voting purposes. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears <strike class="amendmentDeletedText">in brackets and struckthrough.</strike> Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 14-2727 03/01 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Fourteen AN ACT relative to eligibility to vote. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 Eligibility; Domicile; Student. Amend RSA 654:1, I-a to read as follows: I-a. A student of any institution of learning may lawfully claim domicile for voting purposes in the New Hampshire town or city in which he or she lives while attending such institution of learning if such student's claim of domicile otherwise meets the requirements of RSA 654:1, I. A student at a college or university operated by the university system of New Hampshire or the community college system of New Hampshire who is paying the tuition rate established for out-of-state students shall be considered to be claiming domicile in a state other than New Hampshire. 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage. LBAO 14-2727 11/26/13 SB 284-FN - FISCAL NOTE AN ACT relative to eligibility to vote. FISCAL IMPACT: The Department of Justice states this bill, <u class="amendmentInsertedText">as introduced</u> , may increase state expenditures by an indeterminable amount in FY 2015 and each year thereafter. There will be no impact on county and local expenditures, or state, county, and local revenue. METHODOLOGY: The Department of Justice states this bill requires that students at a college or university operated by the University System of New Hampshire or Community College System of New Hampshire who are paying the tuition rate established for out-of-state students shall be considered to be claiming domicile in a state other than New Hampshire. The Department states it will experience an indeterminable increase in expenditures due to a likely increase in election complaints. Voter verification efforts frequently require the use of an investigator to verify whether the individual properly voted in New Hampshire. The Department states it is unable to predict the number of investigations or enforcement actions that may be generated as a result of the bill, so it is not possible to predict the increase in investigative and attorney resources needed to meet any increase in enforcement duties. The Department of State states the bill will result in a very small but indeterminable decrease in expenditures resulting in a reduction in verification mailings required under the state&#8217;s photo ID law.