HB 0390 2009 SESSION 09-0826 03/01 HOUSE BILL 390 AN ACT authorizing access to the criminal justice information system for the purpose of enforcing election laws. SPONSORS: Rep. Fields, Belk 2; Rep. Boyce, Belk 5; Sen. Downing, Dist 22 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill authorizes access by the attorney general to the criminal justice information system for the purpose of enforcing election laws. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears <strike class="amendmentDeletedText">in brackets and struckthrough.</strike> Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 09-0826 03/01 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Nine AN ACT authorizing access to the criminal justice information system for the purpose of enforcing election laws. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 Enforcement of the Election Laws; Criminal Justice Information System. Amend RSA 7:6-c to read as follows: 7:6-c Enforcement of the Election Laws. Upon receipt of a written complaint signed by a voter of the state of New Hampshire, or upon his or her own motion, the attorney general may in his or her discretion, conduct investigations to determine whether any violation of the election laws has occurred and may prosecute anyone responsible for such a violation. In conducting an investigation under this section the attorney general may enlist the aid of the county attorneys, the state police, and other public officers. The attorney general shall have access to the criminal justice information system established under RSA 106-K:2 for the purposes of determining whether any person is qualified to vote in New Hampshire or whether any person is qualified to seek or hold elected office in New Hampshire. In the exercise of his or her powers and duties under this section, the attorney general may hold hearings and require the attendance of individuals by the use of subpoena and may require the production of books, documents, records , and other tangible goods by use of subpoena duces tecum. Any testimony required by the attorney general at a hearing which he or she is empowered to hold under this section shall be given under oath. 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.