HB 0165 HB 165 - AS INTRODUCED 2001 SESSION 01-0498 10/01 HOUSE BILL 165 AN ACT relative to the requirement for including constitutional amendments in the warrant posted at the polling place before general elections. SPONSORS: Rep. Dodge, Rock 4 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill adds an exception for constitutional amendments to the information required to be posted before a state general election. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears [ in brackets and struckthrough. ] Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 01-0498 10/01 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand One AN ACT relative to the requirement for including constitutional amendments in the warrant posted at the polling place before general elections. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 General Elections; Posting of Warrant; Constitutional Amendments Excepted. Amend RSA&#160;658:1 to read as follows: 658:1 General Election. At least 14 days before any state general election, the selectmen shall post a warrant at all the polling places and at the office of the town or city clerk or at the town hall. Said warrant shall prescribe the hour the polls are to open and the hour before which they may not close as provided in RSA 659:4 and RSA 659:4-a. It shall also state all offices and questions which are to be voted on , except for questions relating to constitutional amendments, and the location of the central polling place and of any additional polling places. If the selectmen neglect to issue a warrant for the state general election, or if they neglect to cause copies of such warrant to be posted agreeably to any vote of the town, they shall for each offense be guilty of a violation and any fines collected shall be remitted to the town. 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.