HB 0503 HB 503 - VERSION ADOPTED BY BOTH BODIES 2001 SESSION 01-0729 03/01 HOUSE BILL 503 AN ACT relative to incompatible offices. SPONSORS: Rep. Bruno, Hills 4 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill adds &quot;any federal office&quot; to the definition of incompatible offices. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears [ in brackets and struckthrough. ] Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 01-0729 03/01 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand One AN ACT relative to incompatible offices. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 Nominations; Incompatible Office; Federal Offices Added. Amend RSA 655:10 to read as follows: 655:10 Incompatible Offices. No person shall file declaration of candidacy or primary petitions for nomination at the primary for incompatible offices. For the purposes of this section incompatible offices shall include the offices of governor, representative to the general court, state senator , and councilor , and any federal office . If any person shall file for such incompatible offices, the secretary of state shall advise the person of the provisions hereof and said person shall then advise the secretary of state which of said offices he or she wishes to retain in order to seek said nomination. If a filing fee has been paid for a declaration of candidacy which [ he ] the person declines the fee shall be returned to [ him ] the person . No person shall seek or hold the position as a member of the general court and county commissioner at the same time. No person shall hold 2 of the offices mentioned in RSA 655:9 at the same time, and the acceptance of one of them shall be a resignation of the others. 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.