HB 0458 HB 458 &#8211; AS INTRODUCED 2005 SESSION 05-0354 08/10 HOUSE BILL 458 AN ACT allowing towns to permit limited youth voting in municipal elections. SPONSORS: Rep. Almy, Graf 11; Rep. Hammond, Graf 11 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill allows towns to permit limited youth voting in municipal elections. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears <strike class="amendmentDeletedText">in brackets and struckthrough.</strike> Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 05-0354 08/10 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Five AN ACT allowing towns to permit limited youth voting in municipal elections. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 New Section; Limited Youth Voting. Amend RSA 40 by inserting after section 4-f the following new section: 40:4-g Limited Youth Voting. I. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, persons between the ages of 14 years and 17 years, inclusive, shall be allowed to vote in municipal elections upon the approval of a majority of the voters present and voting on the question at an annual meeting or a special town meeting called for such purpose. All votes on the question shall be taken by written ballot. The following question shall be placed on the ballot &#8220;Shall persons between the ages of 14 years and 17 years, inclusive, be permitted a limited vote within the town of ( )?&#8221; Said question shall be printed in the form prescribed by RSA 59:12-a. If a majority of those voting on the question shall vote in the affirmative, approval of limited youth voting in the town shall be deemed granted. If a majority of those voting on the question shall vote in the negative, such approval shall be deemed not granted and no limited youth voting shall be permitted in such town unless approval is subsequently granted in accord with this section. II.(a) If limited youth voting in paragraph I is approved in a town, the youth vote shall be apportioned as follows: (1) Each vote of an individual between the ages of 14 years and 15 years, inclusive, shall equal 1/4 vote. (2) Each vote of an individual between the ages of 16 years and 17 years, inclusive, shall equal 1/2 vote. (b) The moderator shall determine a method of differentiating and recording the separate classes of voters and their respective vote values. 2 Voter Checklist. Amend RSA 669:5 to read as follows: 669:5 Voters and Checklists. An updated checklist shall be used at all town meetings and elections for the same purposes a checklist is used at a state election and to insure that only qualified voters participate in town meeting discussions and votes, by voice or otherwise. The supervisors shall prepare, post, and revise the checklist for a town meeting or election in the same manner as for a state election as provided in RSA 654:25-654:31, provided, however, that the session for correction shall be held on Saturday 6 to 13 days prior to the election. The supervisors shall also hold one session for correction of the checklist on the day immediately prior to the first day of the filing period for candidates for town office, as provided in RSA 669:19 or 669:42, as applicable, from 7:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. and at the discretion of the supervisors for extended hours. In a town that has approved youth voting under RSA 40:4-g, the school district within such town shall provide to the supervisors a certified copy of names and addresses of students residing in the town of the ages specified in RSA 40:4-g. Any qualified youth who does not attend the local school district shall be able to register by appearing before the supervisors with a birth certificate and a letter from any resident adult with whom the youth is living. 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.