HB 0408 HB 408 - AS INTRODUCED 2003 SESSION 03-0434 03/09 HOUSE BILL 408 AN ACT relative to the definition of political &quot;party.&quot; SPONSORS: Rep. Marple, Merr 37 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill repeals the general definition of political &quot;party.&quot; - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears [ in brackets and struckthrough. ] Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 03-0434 03/09 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Three AN ACT relative to the definition of political &quot;party.&quot; Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 Reference Deleted. Amend RSA 293-A:4.01(b)(6) to read as follows: (6) The name of any political party [ recognized under RSA 652:11 ], unless written consent is obtained from the authorized representative of the respective political organization. 2 Reference Deleted. Amend RSA 304-A:45, II(i) to read as follows: (i) An agency or instrumentality of the United States or this state or a subdivision thereof or of any political party [ recognized under RSA 652:11 ], unless written consent is obtained from the authorized representative of such party. 3 Reference Deleted. Amend RSA 304-C:66, I(d) to read as follows: (d) That a foreign limited liability company may not register under any name which is the same or deceptively similar to the name of any domestic or foreign corporation, business trust, proprietorship, New Hampshire investment trust, voluntary association, trade name, limited liability company, foreign partnership, or limited partnership reserved, registered, qualified to do business, or organized under the laws of New Hampshire or the name of an agency or instrumentality of the United States or this state or a subdivision thereof, or any political party [ recognized under RSA 652:11 ] unless written consent is obtained from the authorized representative of such party; and 4 Reference Deleted. Amend RSA 349:1, IV to read as follows: IV. The secretary of state shall decline to register any trade name the same as, or deceptively similar to, an agency or instrumentality of the United States or this state or subdivision thereof or of any political party [ recognized under RSA 652:11 ], unless written consent is obtained from the authorized representative of such party. 5 Reference Deleted. Amend RSA 664:2, IV to read as follows: IV. &quot;Political party&quot; or &quot;party&quot; means any political organization or number of persons which can nominate candidates in any manner prescribed by law and has done so for the current election. [ The definition of the word &quot;party&quot; contained in RSA 652:11 shall not apply to this chapter. ] 6 Reference Deleted. Amend RSA 664:6, VII to read as follows: VII. Any national political party committee of a party [ as defined in RSA 652:11 ] may make contributions or expenditures on behalf of state candidates without complying with the requirements of paragraphs I through V, provided that the total contribution or expenditure made in behalf of a candidate or political committee in this state whether directly or indirectly does not exceed the limit for personal contributions in RSA 664:4. 7 Repeal. RSA 652:11, relative to definition of party, is repealed. 8 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.