hb 0260 CHAPTER 13 HB 260 - FINAL VERSION 2003 SESSION 03-0323 03/10 HOUSE BILL 260 AN ACT relative to checklists used on election day. SPONSORS: Rep. G. Katsakiores, Rock 77; Rep. P. Katsakiores, Rock 77; Rep. Gleason, Rock&#160;77; Rep. Langone, Rock 77; Rep. Letourneau, Rock 77; Sen. Sapareto, Dist 19 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill permits a municipality that prepares a separate checklist solely for use at a state election to omit a voter's mailing address, if different. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears [ in brackets and struckthrough. ] Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 03-0323 03/10 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Three AN ACT relative to checklists used on election day. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 13:1 Preparing Checklist; Checklist for Use at State Election. Amend RSA 654:25 to read as follows: 654:25 Preparing Checklist. I. The secretary of state shall issue and distribute guidelines for the composition and style of checklists and for the maintenance of data related to checklists by which the supervisors of the checklist shall compile and correct the checklist. Such guidelines shall specify the information which will be maintained and updated by the supervisors. The secretary shall establish standard forms and procedures for the use of the supervisors for the maintenance of such information. The information to be maintained and updated shall include the full name, address , and party affiliation, if any, of each voter on the checklist and such other information as the secretary requires. The supervisors shall use the information so maintained and updated to prepare the checklist for all state elections. Except as provided in paragraph II, every checklist used at any state election shall contain as a minimum the full name, address, and mailing address if different, and party affiliation, if any, of each voter on the checklist. The address and mailing address, if different, of a voter shall not appear on the checklist at the request of the voter if the voter presents to the supervisors of the checklist a valid protective order pursuant to RSA 173-B. A voter who presents a valid protective order may, however, request that a mailing address, if different, be maintained on the checklist. If a voter who presents a valid protective order requests that no address be maintained on the checklist, the supervisors of the checklist may nonetheless maintain a designation on the checklist which indicates that no address is required for that voter. II. If a municipality prepares a separate checklist solely for use at a state election, such checklist may omit a voter's mailing address, if different. 13:2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage. (Approved: April 22, 2003) (Effective Date: June 21, 2003)