HB 0225 HB 225 - AS INTRODUCED 2001 SESSION 01-0331 03/10 HOUSE BILL 225 AN ACT relative to applications for recounts. SPONSORS: Rep. Arndt, Rock 27 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill permits applications for general election and primary recounts to be filed by facsimile transmission. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears [ in brackets and struckthrough. ] Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 01-0331 03/10 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand One AN ACT relative to applications for recounts. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 Elections; Post-Election Procedure; State General Election Recounts; Application; Facsimile Transmission. Amend RSA 660:1 to read as follows: 660:1 Application. Any candidate for whom a vote was cast for any office at a state general election may apply for a recount. The application shall be made in writing to the secretary of state and shall be submitted no later than the Friday following the election. The application may be filed by means of facsimile transmission, provided that the original document is filed with the secretary of state no later than the Friday following the election. When filing by facsimile transmission, the application shall be considered timely filed if the original document is mailed with the fee, and the mailing is postmarked and the facsimile is received by the secretary of state no later than the Friday following the election. Each candidate requesting a recount shall pay the secretary of state fees as provided in RSA 660:2. 2 Elections; Post-Election Procedure; State or Presidential Primary Recounts; Application; Facsimile Transmission. Amend RSA 660:7 to read as follows: 660:7 Application. Any person for whom a vote was cast for any nomination of any party at a state or presidential primary may apply for a recount. The application shall be made in writing to the secretary of state and shall be submitted no later than the Friday after the primary for a recount of all ballots cast for such nomination. The application may be filed by means of facsimile transmission, provided that the original document is filed with the secretary of state no later than the Friday following the primary. When filing by facsimile transmission, the application shall be considered timely filed if the original document is mailed with the fee, and the mailing is postmarked and the facsimile is received by the secretary of state no later than the Friday following the primary. Each candidate requesting a recount shall pay the secretary of state fees as provided in RSA 660:2. 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.