HB 0224 CHAPTER 74 HB 224 - FINAL VERSION 2001 SESSION 01-0330 03/10 HOUSE BILL 224 AN ACT relative to persons who may sign nomination papers. SPONSORS: Rep. Arndt, Rock 27 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill requires that nomination papers be signed by registered voters. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears [ in brackets and struckthrough. ] Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 01-0330 03/10 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand One AN ACT relative to persons who may sign nomination papers. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 74:1 Elections; Nominations; Nomination by Nomination Papers; General Provisions; Signature by Registered Voter Only. Amend RSA 655:40 to read as follows: 655:40 General Provisions. As an alternative to nomination by party primary, a candidate may have his or her name placed on the ballot for the state general election by submitting the requisite number of nomination papers. Such papers shall contain the name and domicile of the candidate, the office for which [ he ] the candidate is nominated , and the political party or principles [ he ] the candidate represents . Nomination papers [ and ] shall be signed by such persons only as are [ qualified ] registered to vote at the state general election. No voter shall sign more than one nomination paper for each office to be voted for, and no nomination paper shall contain the names of more candidates than there are offices to be filled. Each voter shall sign an individual [ petition ] nomination paper . 74:2 Elections; Nominations; Nominations by Nomination Papers; Nomination of Party; Signature by Registered Voter Only. Amend RSA 655:40-a to read as follows: 655:40-a Nomination of Party. A political party may have its name placed on the ballot for the state general election by submitting the requisite number of nomination papers, in the form prescribed by the secretary of state, pursuant to RSA 655:42, III. Such papers shall contain the name of the political party and shall be signed by such persons only as are [ qualified ] registered to vote at the state general election. No voter shall sign more than one nomination paper which allows a political party access to the state general election ballot. 74:3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage. (Approved: June 19, 2001) (Effective Date: August 18, 2001)