HB 0248 HB 248 &#8211; AS INTRODUCED 2013 SESSION 13-0681 03/10 HOUSE BILL 248 AN ACT establishing a committee to study implementation of early processing of absentee ballots at state elections. SPONSORS: Rep. Ferrante, Rock 6; Rep. Chirichiello, Rock 6; Rep. J. Webb, Rock 6; Rep. O'Connor, Rock 6; Rep. Milz, Rock 6; Rep. Hoelzel, Rock 3; Rep. Till, Rock 6 COMMITTEE: Election Law ANALYSIS This bill establishes a committee to study implementation of early processing of absentee ballots at state elections. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears <strike class="amendmentDeletedText">in brackets and struckthrough.</strike> Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 13-0681 03/10 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Thirteen AN ACT establishing a committee to study implementation of early processing of absentee ballots at state elections. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 Committee Established. There is established a committee to study implementation of early processing of absentee ballots at state elections. 2 Membership and Compensation. I. The members of the committee shall be as follows: (a) Three members of the house of representatives, appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives. (b) Three members of the senate, appointed by the president of the senate. II. Members of the committee shall receive mileage at the legislative rate when attending to the duties of the committee. 3 Duties. The committee shall study implementation of early processing of absentee ballots at state elections. The committee&#8217;s study shall focus on the feasibility of processing absentee ballots prior to election day, including potential constitutional barriers, security concerns, and procedural uniformity. 4 Chairperson; Quorum. The members of the study committee shall elect a chairperson from among the members. The first meeting of the committee shall be called by the first-named house member. The first meeting of the committee shall be held within 45 days of the effective date of this section. Four members of the committee shall constitute a quorum. 5 Report. The committee shall report its findings and any recommendations for proposed legislation to the speaker of the house of representatives, the president of the senate, the house clerk, the senate clerk, the governor, and the state library on or before November 1, 2013. 6 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.