SB 0271 SB 271 &#8211; AS INTRODUCED 2006 SESSION 06-2872 03/01 SENATE BILL 271 AN ACT relative to the availability of voter checklist information. SPONSORS: Sen. Green, Dist 6; Sen. D'Allesandro, Dist 20 COMMITTEE: Internal Affairs ANALYSIS This bill adds the mailing address contained on the checklist to the public information subject to RSA 91-A. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics. Matter removed from current law appears <strike class="amendmentDeletedText">in brackets and struckthrough.</strike> Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type . 06-2872 03/01 STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Six AN ACT relative to the availability of voter checklist information. Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened: 1 Right to Know Exemption; Public Information; Mailing Address. Amend RSA 654:31-a to read as follows: 654:31-a Right to Know Exemption. The information contained on the checklist of a town or city, specifically, the name, street address, mailing address, town or city, and party affiliation, if any, of registered voters, except as otherwise provided by statute, is public information subject to RSA 91-A. All other information on the voter registration form, absentee registration affidavit, and application for absentee ballot shall be treated as confidential information and the records containing this information shall be exempt from the public disclosure provisions of RSA 91-A, except as provided by statutes other than RSA 91-A. Election officials and law enforcement personnel in furtherance of their official duties may access and may disclose information from the voter registration form, absentee registration affidavits, and applications for absentee ballots, if necessary to resolve a challenge to an individual registering to vote or voting, or if necessary to investigate or prosecute election law violations or any crime. Law enforcement access and use of such records for the investigation or prosecution of crimes unrelated to election law violations shall be limited to the records of the specific individuals who are the subject of the investigation or prosecution. 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.